h1. jira-cards

A command line tool for generating scrum cards from jira. It allows you to customise the styling of the scrum cards using an erb template. 

h1. Installation 

You are going to need to

* Install the jira-cards gem <pre>gem install jira-cards</pre>
* "Enable the jira RPC-Plugin":http://confluence.atlassian.com/display/JIRA/JIRA+XML-RPC+Overview
* Install "wkhtmltopdf":http://code.google.com/p/wkhtmltopdf/ 

h1. Configuration 

When you first run the tool it will ask you:

* The url to your jira instance e.g. jira.atlassian.com
* A username & password for accessing jira. Whatever user you use must be an admin
* Path to the wkhtmltopdf e.g. C:\\Program Files\\wkhtmltopdf\\wkhtmltopdf.exe 
* If you want to use the default templates
** If no, the path to the template erb & css file

You can view the current configuration using the config command:

<pre>
jira-cards config 
</pre>

If you want to change the config, you can use the reset flag:

<pre>
jira-cards config --reset
</pre>

h1. Commands

h2. Issues 

For printing individual issues.

--output:  The path you want the pdf written to

e.g. c:\foo\bar.pdf
 
--keys: The issue keys you want to print

You can specify individual keys (separated by comma), e.g. 

<pre>
jira-cards issues --keys "foo-1, foo-4, foo-10" --output c:\temp\test.pdf
</pre>

You can also specify ranges (a la "ruby ranges":http://www.ruby-doc.org/core/classes/Range.html) of keys e.g.

<pre>
jira-cards issues --keys foo-4..foo-10 --output c:\temp\test.pdf
</pre> 

or you could go crazy and have both!

<pre>
jira-cards issues --keys foo-4..foo-10,foo-14,foo-21..foo-35 --output c:\temp\test.pdf
</pre> 

h2. Iteration

For printing all issues for a team for a specific version.

--output:  The path you want the pdf written to

e.g. c:\foo\bar.pdf
 
--project: The name of the team

e.g. "Foo Team"

--version: The version you want to print cards from

e.g. "Iteration 30"

<pre>
jira-cards iteration --project "Foo Team" --version "Iteration 30" --output c:\temp\test.pdf
</pre>

h1. Templates

The scrum cards are generated from an "erb":http://ruby-doc.org/stdlib/libdoc/erb/rdoc/ html template which is then converted to pdf using "pdfkit":https://github.com/jdpace/PDFKit. There is a default template however if wish to customize the look/fields you will need to set the path to the erb template and css stylesheet in the configuration (if you want to change the config: jira-cards config --reset). You can access all of the issues via the @issues variable (an array of issues). Common Properties:

* issue_type: e.g. Story, Bug, Epic
* summary 
* key 
* assignee
* points 
* custom fields: all custom fields are available, e.g. "Business value" would be business_value

Have a look at the "default template":https://github.com/jhollingworth/jira-cards/blob/master/lib/default_template.erb to see an example.